h1. css_sprite

A rails plugin/gem to generate css sprite images automatically.
Supports Transparency in PNGs/GIFs

**************************************************************************

h2. Install

install rmagick gem first:
<pre><code>
sudo gem install rmagick
</code></pre>

install it as a gem:
<pre><code>
sudo gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org
sudo gem install css_sprite
</code></pre>

or install it as a plugin:
<pre><code>
script/plugin install git@github.com:flyerhzm/css_sprite.git
</code></pre>

**************************************************************************

h2. Configuration

Add files with the pattern "css_sprite*.css" (e.g. css_sprite.css, css_sprite_stars.css) to
the <code>config</code> directory.
All files starting with <code>css_sprite</code> and ending with <code>.css</code> will be processed.
This enables you to group your sprites together.

The following configuration parameter are possible:
<pre><code>
config:
  base_directory: public/images              # Base directory for source and target images (defaults to "public/images")
  css_output: tmp/css_sprite_stars.css             # Where to put the CSS File (defaults to tmp/css_sprite.css)

images:
  - description: Stars with transparency     # description (will not be processed)
    sources:                                 # List of files to convert to a single sprite
      - sc-mcstars0.png
      - sc-mcstars1.png
    target: stars_png_with_transparency.png  # Where to put the resulting sprite ()
    align: horizontal                        # Align the Sprites "horizontal" or "vertical" (default)
    spaced_by: 50                            # Empty pixel between each image (defaults to 0)
    
  - description: Second Sprite ...           # Second Sprite definition ...
</code></pre>

**************************************************************************

h2. Usage

if you use it as a gem, add a task <code>lib/tasks/css_sprite.rake</code> first:
<pre><code>
require 'css_sprite'
</code></pre>
if you use it as a plugin, ignore the step above.

then just run rake task:
<pre><code>
rake css_sprite:build
</code></pre>

the result css is generated as defined in the corresponding <code>css_output</code> parameter:

<pre><code>
.good_topic
    backgound: url('/images/forum_icon_vertical.gif') no-repeat 0px 0px
    width: 20px
    height: 19px
.mid_topic
    backgound: url('/images/forum_icon_vertical.gif') no-repeat 0px 24px
    width: 20px
    height: 19px
.unread_topic
    backgound: url('/images/forum_icon_vertical.gif') no-repeat 0px 48px
    width: 19px
    height: 18px
.sticky_topic
    backgound: url('/images/forum_icon_vertical.gif') no-repeat 0px 71px
    width: 19px
    height: 18px
</code></pre>

**************************************************************************


Copyright (c) 2009 [Richard Huang (flyerhzm@gmail.com)], released under the MIT license
